# demographic-bike-research
This repo contains a simple HTML/Javascript program that can be ran on a cellphone. The point of this is to do demographic research on high pedestrain areas, using a simple method of recording people and usage while riding a bicycle.

The inspiration of this project came from recent comments and trend within the city of Minneapolis that seem to indicate a strong affinity for the citizens to remove all traffic from Nicollet Mall in Downtown Minneapolis. I am a bus driver for Metro Transit and I have a strong feeling that this would be counter productive in making the downtown corridor better for bicycles, people with disabilities, and especially people of a different race/ethnicity other than standard white people. 

The hopes for this project is to reflect a true narritive of Nicollet Mall. 

Furthermore, Nicollet Mall received a $50 Million revamp to make it the way it is today, and even today there are several items that are missing from the street that make it unpleasant. First, this is a bus cooridor, but the buses are required to be slow, and often hit stop lights that increase delays by significant margins. The fact that the buses are capped at 10mph is not truely accurate as each bus is required to stop at every block for 12 blocks for an average of 30-45 seconds at each light. This means that on average the bus is about 6 minutes late at the end. A better and much more pleasant ride would be one in which the bus stops at each intersection, allowing people to board or disembark, but not requiring the bus to wait at the stop light. Then replacing the stop light with a simple all way stop sign. Furthermore, there needs to be increased signage for the street indicating the street is only for bus, bikes, and pedestrians. Currently people drive through, luckily most traffic is slowed down by the buses (which is actually part of the design).

Then there is the cross traffic for nicollet mall which are giant highway width roads designed for massive capacities, that simply do not exist.

Recent traffic studies show that the all of the streets that cross nicollet mall are below 10000people/day, but yet are built for 45000 people/hr. This suggests that nicollet mall should and remains to be a vital pedestrian cooridor, but the idea of making this cooridor only for pedestrains foolish. Better ideas for Nicollet mall include literally closing most of the cross streets, or converting all of the cross streets into 2 ways with stop signs at every intersection. This would provably result in higher and safer foot traffic being funneled into nicollet mall. 

Depending on the outcome of this study the removal of the buses may be a racist action that largely targets minorities, seniors, disabled people. The discussion of removing the buses from nicollet mall should be carefully analyzed and I don't see anyone else doing the work, so I shall do it.

This study will be performed on August 21st between 6am and 7pm all day long I am going to ride my bike up and down Nicollet Mall with my ebike.